In this video, we're going to create a new git repository inside of our project.
Before we do, however, I want to have just a quick note, one or two on how we create Git and use
Git inside of a microservices project.
So in general, you're going to see that there are two different styles of managing code in a microservices
project using Git or really any other version control.
One approach is to use what is referred to as a mono repo.
This is where we are going to create a single git repository to track all the changes made to all of
our different services.
So in this scenario, all of our code lives inside of one single git repository.
The other approach is to create a separate repository for each individual service.
So we're going to have one git repository for auth, another for tickets payments.
So on you get the idea.
You're going to see that even though it might make a lot of sense when you initially think about this,
it might seem like it makes a lot of sense to create a single git repository for each repo but or for
each service.
But you're going to see that in reality what a lot of different companies do and I'm talking about very,
very large companies with tremendously large code bases, they actually trend towards using a single
repository to track all the code inside of their project.
One of the biggest reasons for this is that every single time that you create a new git repository,
there's actually a lot of overhead that goes along with that.
You have to create a separate repository on, say, GitHub or get lab depending on what service you're
using.
You might have to create a separate set of authentication keys just to get access to that repository,
you have to set up a separate CI and CD pipeline.
There's a lot of work that goes into creating each of these Git repositories when we're working with
microservices.
It's not really just as simple as writing out Git in it and saying, okay, that's it, we're done.
Instead, there really is a lot of work.
So to limit that amount of overhead.
Very simple solution.
Just use one single git repository.
And that's not to say that there are no downsides of using a single repository, because there definitely
are.
As a matter of fact, we're going to run into a couple of those downsides as we go through this deployment
workflow.
In this course because the vast majority of larger companies doing micro services use a single git repository.
We're going to take that same pattern.
So we're going to use a single git repository to track all of our different services.
So that means we're now going to go over to our terminal.
We're going to create a new git repo inside of our project.
We're going to commit all of our code.
We'll then go off to GitHub and create a matching repository up there as well.
Yeah.
So inside of my project directory.
I'm going to do a get in it.
Inside of here.
Before I commit anything or add anything, I'm going to create a get ignore file to make sure that we
ignore all of our node modules, directories and so on.
I don't want to commit any of my repositories, assuming any of my dependencies or anything like that.
After making that repository, I'm then going to go back over to my editor inside of my root project
directory.
I'll make a new file called Dot yet ignore.
I'm going to add in there node modules.
Because I'm on Mac OS, I'm also going to ignore a very annoying little file called the DZ store file.
You only have to do that if you're on MAC OS.
It will save that and close the file.
I'll then go back to my terminal.
I'll do a get ad.
And then a get commit.
And I'll just say initial commit like so.
And I should see all of my typescript files, some JSON stuff, some JavaScript stuff, all that should
be committed.
Now, as you scroll through this list, you should definitely not see anything tied to, say, the node
modules directory or anything like that.
Once we've committed all that, we now have an up to date git repository on our local machine.
We're now going to go off to GitHub and create a matching repository on there.
Now for this course, even if you are normally a user of GitLab, please make use of GitHub.
We're going to rely upon some features on GitHub itself, specifically something called GitHub actions
to handle running our tests and eventually handle the deployment as well.
So you can not use GitLab in this course because we are relying upon these GitHub features in particular.
So once I go to GitHub.
I'll make sure that I am signed in.
If I can.
There we go.
I'll then create a new repository.
And I'll give it a very simple name about ticketing.
Simple enough.
I'll then create the repository.
And then we have to tie this GitHub repository to the repo that we just created on our local machine.
So I'm going to copy the link displayed right here.
I'll go back over to my terminal where I just read the repo and I'll do a get remote, add origin and
then paste in that URL.
If you get an error during the step right here or during the next step where we're going to push, let's
do the push first because this is actually probably where you're going to see the error.
It's going to do a get push origin master and you'll notice for me everything is going to appear to
work just fine if you get an error here that says something like permission denied or something like
that, you need to make sure that you've got your git client set up to work with GitHub.
Appropriately so in particular, you're going to want to make sure that you've got some matching SSH
keys and whatnot.
You can check the help on GitHub for directions on how to do that.
If you're here in this course, to be totally honest with you, I'm really going to expect that you
are familiar with Git and you know how to push code to GitHub.
So I'm going to leave doing some research on resolving any errors that you might have just got gotten
right here on you.
After I pushed my code, I'll then flip back over to the repo.
Refresh the page and I should see everything up here.
Very good.
All right.
So now that we've got all of our code put together, we're now going to create these two automatic little
steps where we're going to make sure that any time that we create a request, we run some tests for
our project.
And we're also going to create a little step to make sure that any time that we merge something into
our master branch, GitHub builds and deploys our project as well.
So let's get started on that little level of automation in the next video.